Hi everyone, in this video I'm going to briefly describe the API that my group comes out with and the purpose of this API. Also, I will go through the OAS file and explain some of the main points that I think are very helpful to you guys and have a better understanding of documenting for API.

Our API, Manitoba Institutes, is an API that allows users or developers to get the institution's information based on some parameter. The purpose of creating this API is to reduce the time on searching for some institutes on the internet, and also the inconsistency of data. Since every data was stored on our server database, this will minimize the searching time and also keep the data consistent on every request made.

Before start explain the keyword in the OAS file, one thing must know is that the indent in the OAS file is just like the python language, which really matters and most of the error that occurs is because of the placing of indentation.

The "servers" object is used to show the URL of the API for the user to make requests.

The "openapi" keyword is used to define what version of OAS you are using. This is important because the website could not render the OAS without this definition.

The "info" object will contain the title and description of the API as well as the version of your API. One OAS can only have one info object. You can also insert some links or the license of your API in this object by using keywords such as "contact:", "email:", "license:" and so on.

The tags object is used to define a title for your API endpoint.

The "paths" object is the place that contains most of your API information including the way to create a request, the example response, and the method of the request.

First, write the endpoint of your API and then the request method of this endpoint. In our case, we are using 'Get' as the method of this endpoint. Now, we will use the tags that we created before to categorize this endpoint belongs to which tag.

Next, the "parameter" object is used to define the parameter of this endpoint. By using the keyword, you can define as many parameters as you like in one endpoint. The "in" keyword means that this parameter is a query parameter in the endpoint. The name keyword is used to set a name to hold the pass-in value. While the "schema" object is an extension of JSON, which allows you to use the type keyword to state this parameter input data type. In addition, you can set the required keyword to true if the parameter requires an input value when making the request.

Furthermore, the responses object is to define the response from the endpoint after making the request. There are different error codes we can search on the internet and 200 is one of the error codes. Error code 200 means the request is successful and the API will return the information back to the user, while error code 400 means the requesting fail.

The content object in each response will contain the message going to send back to the user. In the content object, we have to define what kind of message we are going to send back, in the example, we will send a JSON-type message back to the user when the request is successful.

Finally, the last part of the yaml is the components object. This object is just used to make the yaml more readable. The components can be treated as a pointer pointing to a specific object and can be retrieved by writing the component's path. In our API, we use components to hold our response JSON message. So, we do not need to write everything inside the responses object and cause everything to be nested. We can just simply use the ref keyword to reference the JSON message from the components object.

Lastly, there are tons of resources about how to write a good OAS file on the internet, and hear I have some that help me a lot when I'm taking COMP3040 just like you guys. Also, I want to thank to my group member who did very great job in researching idea.